=head1 NAME

mag3110d -  read magnetic field from MAG3110 using i2c

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<mag3110d> 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<mag3110d> is used to read magnetic field data from MAG3110 on 
Raspberry Pi using i2c bus. The daemon is started with command 

B<service> I<mag3110d> I<start>

and can be stopped any time with

B<service> I<mag3110d> I<stop>

The operation of the daemon can be checked from the log file.

The magnetometer reading needs to be corrected for the hard iron offset. 
The offset values are written to the configuration file parameters
I<OFF_X>, I<OFF_Y> and I<OFF_Z>. After offset correction the measured
Earth's magnetic field should be between 25 and 65 uT. 

2D compass bearing can be calculated too. First the magnetometer
is pointed to magnetic North and the corresponding magnetic vector 
(Bx,By,Bz) is measured. This vector is written to the configuration file
in parameters I<NORTHBX>, I<NORTHBY> and I<NORTHBZ>. The declination
between magnetic North and true North can be corrected with the 
I<DECLINATION> parameter. The quality of the calculated compass bearing
is estimated by comparing the North calibration magnetic vector magnitude
to the measured magnetic vector magnitude. In addition the size of the
horizontal component is calculated to see if this value is low due to tilting
of the magnetometer. 

=head1 FILES

I</etc/mag3110d_config>             Configuration file. 

I</etc/logrotate.d/mag3110d>        Log rotation configuration file.

I</etc/init.d/mag3110d>             Init script.

I</usr/sbin/mag3110d>               Daemon code.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/altitude>       Live elevation in degrees.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/azimuth>        Live compass bearing in degrees.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/quality>        Quality flag for the compass bearing.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/B>              Live total field.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/Bx>             Live field x component.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/By>             Live field y component.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/Bz>             Live field z component.

I</var/lib/mag3110d/temperature>    Live temperature value.

I</var/log/mag3110d.log>            Log file.

I</var/run/mag3110d.pid>            PID file.

The configuration file can have following parameters.

I<COMPASS>
If set calculate compass bearing and elevation.

I<CTRL_REG1>
Initial value for CTRL_REG1. 

I<CTRL_REG2>
Initial value for CTRL_REG2.

I<DECLINATION>
Declination between true North and magnetic North in degrees.

I<LOGLEVEL>
Log level 0=debug messages, 1=system commands, 2=operation messages, 
3=status messages and 4=errors/warnings.

I<MAGNINT>
Magnetic field reading interval in seconds.

I<NORTHBX>
Measured field Bx [0.1uT] when compass points to North.

I<NORTHBY>
Measured field By [0.1uT] when compass points to North.

I<NORTHBZ>
Measured field Bz [0.1uT] when compass points to North.

I<OFF_X>
Bx offset -10000 - +10000.

I<OFF_Y>
By offset -10000 - +10000.

I<OFF_Z>
Bz offset -10000 - +10000.

I<TDELAY>
Delay in seconds after trigger for measurement before the magnetometer is read.

I<TEMPINT>
Temperature reading interval in seconds.

I<TOFFSET>
Temperature offset.

=head1 WARNING

No check is done where the query data is written. Could make some hardware 
unusable.

=head1 AUTHORS

Jaakko Koivuniemi 

=head1 SEE ALSO

i2cdetect(8), i2cset(8), i2cget(8)

